you're are most likely missing out on so
much performance and you don't even know
guys as an example we have two identical
Rams right 52 gigs cl6 but one is set to
3,000 MHz and one is set to 2,400 you
might think ah it doesn't make too much
of a difference right so many people
don't have their Ram running on the
maximum speed and this is how much
you're losing literally you have
bandwidth and latency latency is the
most important factor for fortnite I
would say and bandwidth is for video
editing also kind of for gaming and
overall usage of the PC for 3, MHz we
have a total bandwidth of 48 gigs per
second for 2,400 we have 38.4 you're
already missing out on 25% in bandwidth
and now for the latency you basically
calculate cl16 * 1,000 through 3,000 MHz
* 2 which comes down to a total of 2.67
nond for all 16 Cycles this is by the
way that CL stands for on your RAM it
always shows you how many cycles your
RAM kind of needs to process data
whenever it gets like the command from
the ram controller and then working
through whatever you're doing right now
on your PC and if you're only running
2,400 MHz you're already on 3.3 NS you
might think right now that doesn't sound
like a lot but you're literally missing
out on 1if of your performance just
because you're too lazy or you don't
even check your XMP profile guys you are
paying so much money for Ram and you're
missing out on 1/5th of your performance
and the higher you go with ram the worse
it's going to get I've seen people with
7,200 7,600 MHz RAM and they're only
running it on 5,600 you're literally
missing out on so much performance and
especially the latency is super
important to keep consistent FPS and
literally all you got to do is restart
your PC go into the BIOS search up for
XMP and put it to profile one most of
the time profile one already has all the
presets and automatically enables the
highest mehz or just simply Google it up
I Sly can give you all of the infos
about this because every single bios
looks different if you use Asus gigabyte
whatever srock they all have different
bioses next up what's also super
important is guys so many people under
CPU have so many processes I've seen
people with two 300 of them and they're
wondering why the overal system render
latency is so bad you have like 200
processors running in the background you
want to keep this as low as possible
like I'm going to give you an example I
have 70 processors with OBS running and
my go XLR you know for my audient all
that stuff usually I get under 60
processes when I'm not recording on this
PC I made a full detailed video showing
you exactly step by step how to reduce
your processes it's literally a complete
guide you can't mess up anything also
super important guys in your system tray
don't have many app applications running
here how you check this test maner go in
the start up make sure to disable as
many as you can guys as an example I had
your yava update schedule actually turn
on because I just recently installed
Minecraft but it doesn't mean that it
has to run every single time Xbox app
service and all of that Microsoft ad
epic games AMD this one here the noise
suppression thing which anyways no one
really uses make sure to disable as many
as possible next up apps and features
make sure to go through this whole
entire list and uninstall everything
which you don't need you don't need
Skype all of these here theoretically
not even calculator then we have some
other stuff here make sure to also
uninstall all tools which you never use
there's usually so much blood Weare
actually on Windows pre-installed go
through it and make sure to uninstall as
many as you can next up guys your power
plan is also super important for me I
use the bsim high performance one so
many people plan balance don't do that
guys bits Sim is so good literally link
to it in the video description go in
Main in the first place make sure to go
under active power profile set it to
bitsum Pro bance enabled performance
mode enabled then you're going to go
over to options general make sure to go
under refresh interval GUI put this one
here to 5 Seconds the same as well with
interval Governor this one you're also
going to put to 5 Seconds now you're
going to launch whatever game you want
to run in the background I'm going to
give you now an example on OBS since I
don't have a game running go on the CPU
priority always put it to high then we
have i o priority always also put it to
high then power profile then power
profile make sure to put it on bitsum
highest performance one as mentioned
just pretend that this is the fortnite
xer and then finally also CP your
Affinity guys and in here I want to tell
you something for AMD you want to make
sure to actually disable smt this gives
AMD users a huge performance increase
for you on Intel this is called hyper
Fring and Hyper Fring you could
theoretically say that most games
actually benefit if you disable hyper
Fring but it only makes sense if you're
running eight cores or above if you're
on six cores you have to try it out
again if you're on four cores always
enable hyperring I'm going to give you a
quick example if you go here actually
under my CPU you can see that I have
eight cores and 16 logical processes
which means eight real ones and eight of
them which are simply calculations on my
CPU they're virtual but what we have as
a problem is if we actually take a look
here at Affinity all of them are checked
and most games are just simply using the
first eight and the issue which we now
have we have a real one we have a fake
one we have a real one we have a fake
one so what you want to do is with
disabling hyper threading or smt on AMD
that you force your game to basically
use the real ones as mentioned on AMD
turning off smt can help you a ton out
guys make sure that you have a model
which is maybe a little bit newer I
would say like ryzen third generation or
something like that they're definitely
before you have to try it out as well
but on Intel 100% as mentioned if you
have eight cores or above make sure to
turn it off and test it out in multiple
games of course there are some
applications which still benefit from
hyper threading or some games if you
have like a huge large scaled open world
single player game then of course again
turn it on but for fortnite as an
example you have to try it out yourself
just make sure to run a game maybe with
disabling hyper Fring and then run
another game where you have hyper Fring
and then just look at the average FPS in
general most games profit from this
because you're avoiding thermal
throttling you're avoiding your CPU
basically working over time causing also
additional latency and everything is
also getting processed in the background
but until the CPU Affinity step I use
everything which I just showed you
previously and you're going to be good
to go just simply minimize it process L
is then going to run the background
actively doesn't cost money or anything
like that then just simply go into a
power plan and make sure that bits
highest performance one is selected I've
also seen from one of my latest polls
that actually most of you guys have
Nvidia so therefore you're going to need
Envy clean install because you need to
reinstall your current driver without
all the blow Hardware link to it as
mentioned in the video description and
what you want to do is click here under
manually select driver go for the latest
version or you could also try to figure
out which driver specifically works the
best for you I made a whole video about
this check it out afterwards but let's
say you want to go with the latest
version make sure that you selected it
go into next and now you can see we have
a bunch of stuff here which usually gets
installed automatically if you use
normal Nvidia app or G experience and
all of that stuff and actually we only
need displ driver required you could
also click under recommended I would
recommend you to uncheck HD audio via
HDMI unless you're trying to plug a PC
into a TV or you need like audio from
the monitor itself other than that only
physics X should be checked and the rest
guys you can completely leave unchecked
Shadow play telary EnV container Shield
streaming service and all that stuff
don't need it click under next next up
under installation tweaks make sure to
disable install of telary perform clean
install disable multiple overlay and
disable enzel show xook tweaks disable
telary disable Nvidia HD audio enable
the MSI mode just simply put it under
high disable this service here this
basically super old one which you don't
need anymore it's just to prevent you
from basically making a copy of movies
that's what it was intended years ago
and then click on the next and now just
simply click on install and continue now
you fully deep loaded your Nvidia driver
amazing as mentioned if you want to test
out specifically which of your drivers
is the best for maximum FPS and least
amount of latency I made a whole entire
Benchmark guide showing you everything
check it out afterwards next up we also
going to search up device manager once
we are in here what you want to look for
is under system devices actually the
high Precision event timer and this one
you want to disable just simp click on
yes make sure that's disabled and you're
already good to go extra steps which I
could also give you guys is make sure
that you actually unplug as many devices
as you can from your PC don't use
multiple monitors results in much higher
latency especially if you're gaming
competitive and all of that stuff guys
only use one single monitor if you
needed for streaming and stuff like that
I can totally understand that but for
the best performance only use one
monitor the same as well with multiple
USB devices which you don't need so many
people have like a secondary keyboard
just for Aesthetics make sure to unplug
it and all that stuff also make sure to
check out the two videos which are your
own screen where I show you how to fully
optimize Windows 11 or also how to get
atlas OS which is a custom gaming o
which works perfect